---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 34 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-08-25T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-08-25T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**nv21 - Watermelon Upgrade :watermelon:**

The Lotus team has started to shift some of our focus towards the coming network version 21 upgrade. Here are some estimated timelines to keep in mind as the network upgrade is coming closer:

- **September 14:** The Lotus team will start pre-testing the nv21-upgrade on the butterfly-network.
- **September 15:** FIPs enter last call.
- **September 28:** Actors/FVM code freeze.
- **October 3rd:** Lotus v1.24.0-rc1 and Boost-release candidate being released
- **October 10:** Calibration network upgrade
- **October 24:** Final version of Lotus v1.24.0 and Boost supporting the network upgrade.
- **November 7:** Mainnet upgrade

You can check out which FIPs currently are considered to be in scope for [nv21 here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/core-devs/discussions/140#discussion-5202703)

**Update on SupraNational PC2/C2 <> Lotus-Miner**

One of our goals this quarter was to allow storage providers to leverage the SupraNational PC2 and C2 proofs to reduce the sealing times for these tasks significantly!

This week the [PR enabling delegating PreCommit2 to call external libraries in lotus-workers & lotus-bench](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11185), and thus enabling one to use SN PC2, is now under code-review. Similarly the proofs-team has a PR enabling the SN C2 proofs behind a feature flag in review.

We are awaiting some final dependency releases before we can :ship: and start leveraging these features. We will updated you all once these PRs land!

**FIL Dev Summit - :flag-sg: Singapore: Sep 12-14 :eyes:**

With the Fil Dev Summit in Singapore a little over 2 weeks away, the lineup of talks and workshops is being solidified.

For further information, please explore the website, [where you can apply to attend or submit a talk.](https://fildev.io/#singapore)

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: