---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 35 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-09-01T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-09-01T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**:watermelon: nv21 - Watermelon :watermelon:**

The Lotus team plans to roll out **two releases** in time for the **nv21 upgrade** for our users to choose based on their needs:

- **`v1.24.0`** - Mandatory Release, this release will encompass all essential changes required for the **nv21** upgrade.
- **`v1.25.0`** - This will be the feature release for the network upgrade, this feature release will have all the features that are published in the coming `v1.23.4-rcX`, as well as all the consensus breaking changes needed for nv21.

**Estimated timeline:**
- **October 3rd:** Lotus v1.24.0-rc1 and Boost-rcX being released.
- **October 10:** Calibration network upgrade.
- **October 24:** Final version of Lotus v1.24.0, Lotus v1.25.0 and Boost-versions supporting the network upgrade.
- **November 7:** Mainnet upgrade.

**News :newspaper:**

- **Efficiency in Block Production :zap:**
   - The drive to make block production more efficient continues. The [pull request #11157](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11157#issuecomment-1702441366) is open for review and has been tested. The proposed changes mainly focus on reducing the chances of equivocation and refining the mining process.

- **Mining Duration Issues :mag:**
   - We’ve opened a PR addressing concerns about [mining durations exceeding block timestamps](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/CPFTWMY7N/p1693192780857229). More details and [discussions can be found here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11228)

- **FIL__FIL Implementation Plan :hand_with_index_finger_and_thumb_crossed:**
   - For those looking into the [FIL__FIL](https://gist.github.com/ZenGround0/42fcd945a73af40a2ac35f78e204d4a0), a detailed plan has been provided here. This project aims to create an incentivized data network overlay on Filecoin specifically tailored for Filecoin snapshots. Any collaborators or interested parties are invited to jump in! :star-struck_cat:

**:flag-sg: FIL Dev Summit - Singapore: Sep 12-14 :flag-sg:**
A quick reminder: The Fil Dev Summit in Singapore is coming up! Don’t miss out - you can still apply to attend or submit a talk through the [event’s website.](https://chat.openai.com/?model=gpt-4#)

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: