---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 29 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-07-21T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-07-21T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**Synthetic Butterfly network is up :butterfly:**

SyntheticPoReps are now live on the Butterfly-network. If you want to join the Butterfly-network and start testing and experimenting with Synthetic PoReps:

1. Check out this PR with `git checkout feat/nv21-skeleton`
2. Follow the [standard upgrade process](https://lotus.filecoin.io/storage-providers/operate/upgrades/#upgrade-in-place), but instead build for the Butterfly-network instead with `Make butterflynet`
3. Get funds [from the faucet here.](https://faucet.butterfly.fildev.network/)
4. Set `UseSyntheticPoRep = true` in your config.toml file.

**Scalable Lotus-infra with YugabyteDB**

This week, we’ve implemented numerous minor adjustments, contributing to the progress towards a scalable Lotus infrastructure that utilizes YugabyteDB as the backend datastore. This architecture supports multiple RPC nodes behind a load balancer, facilitating the linear increase of read IOPs via horizontal scaling and the addition of more nodes to the Yugabyte cluster.

While the PR has yet to be merged, it is available for preliminary testing. You can access this early version by checking out the `mikers/feat/cassandra-store branch`. [Early documentation can be found here.](https://cosmic-halva-918d7c.netlify.app/lotus/configure/followers/)

**Enhancements and bugfixes**

We opened some PRs that addresses some bugfixes and also merged some enhancements this week. Most notably:

- We have a [PR currently in review](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11087) that fixes numerous issues in the PC1-retry loop. If you’ve experienced problems with an endlessly repeating PC1 process, this PR should help. It will attempt the PC1 process a maximum of three times before it stops to try to seal the sector.
- We merged a PR that adds a `remove-existing-chain` flag which you can use when importing a snapshot. When using this flag, Lotus will remove the existing chain data. reducing the manual operations needed when node operators want to prune their current chain.

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: