---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 39 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-09-29T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-09-29T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

The `v1.23.4-rc2` has been shipped this week, remember this is a feature **release candidate**, improvement highlights:

- Unsealing on workers with only sealing paths works.
- Transferring unsealed files to long-term storage upon successful unsealing.
- Ensuring no residual files in sealing paths post a successful unsealing operation.

You can find all the details [about this release here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.4-rc2)

**Butterfly Reset & Testing Advances :butterfly:**
- The Butterfly network has been reset to accommodate new testing phases.
- We are making solid progress with the 3.5-year deals, SynthPoRep and move partition testing.

**Fil Dev Summit Singapore Recap :movie_camera: :flag-sg:**
- Missed the summit? No worries! The sessions from the recent FILDev Summit are now available on [YouTube.](https://www.youtube.com/@FilecoinProject/videos) Catch up on all the insightful discussions and groundbreaking demos.

**The list of FIPs that transitioned out of Last Call and into Accepted this week :newspaper: :**

[Several FIPs](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C01EU76LPCJ/p1695756970179909) have successfully passed out of Last Call status and are now Accepted. :white_check_mark: These FIPs have undergone scrutiny and community input, and are now eligible to be included in the nv21 Watermelon :watermelon: network upgrade.

- **FIP0070** - Allow SPs to move partitions between deadlines: Add a new method for Miner actor to allow SPs to move a partition of sectors from one deadline to another, so that an SP could have control over their WindowedPoSt schedule.
- **FIP0071** - Deterministic State Access (IPLD Reachability): This FIP brings us a step closer to user-defined WebAssembly actors by introducing deterministic rules defining what “state” (IPLD blocks) an actor is and is not allowed to read.
- **FIP0073** - Remove beneficiary from the self_destruct syscall: The proposal recommends simplifying the “self-destruct” mechanism by requiring actors to first transfer any remaining funds through a standard send operation before initiating self-deletion, addressing complexities in the current protocol.
- **FIP0075** - Improvements to the FVM randomness syscalls: The proposal recommends two key changes to the FVM syscalls concerning randomness and tipset CID fetching:
    1. It shifts the responsibility of mixing-in user-provided “entropy” from the FVM to the calling actor.
    2. It adjusts the gas costs for these syscalls to be proportional to the lookback distance. These changes aim to streamline the operations while formalizing that no lookback limit will be enforced.

**FIL-Vegas** is happening next week. Get a glimpse of the action and [learn more about it here.](https://fil-vegas.io/)

That’s it for the week! **Have a fantastic weekend!** :sunny: