---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 47 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-11-25T00:00:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-11-25T00:00:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

**Calibration Upgrade Successful**

The Calibration network upgrade has been a success! Thanks to all the operators and testers for your invaluable contributions.

**Network Version 21 - :watermelon:Watermelon:watermelon:**

*Mark your calendars!*
The mandatory nv21 upgrade is scheduled to upgrade at `2023-12-12T13:30:00Z`, epoch `346938`.

Use the [Filecoin chain time calculator to find out the exact time, for your timezone](https://observablehq.com/@jbenet/filecoin-chain-time-calculator).

- [Lotus v1.24.0](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.24.0) - Stable release
   - The corresponding Boost version for this release is [v2.1.0](https://github.com/filecoin-project/boost/releases/tag/v2.1.0).
- [Lotus v1.25.0](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.25.0) - Feature release
   - The corresponding Boost version for this release is [v2.1.0]

Please note, that the minimum :golang: Go version is now `v1.20.7`. *Go version 1.21.x is not supported yet.*

Make sure to check out the full changelog for each version :book:!

**Pre network upgrade checklist:**
- Make sure that your system is either running **Lotus v1.24.0** or **Lotus v1.25.0**.
- Run `lotus state actor-cids --network-version 21` and check that the manifest CID matches this CID:

```
Network Version: 21
Actor Version: 12
Manifest CID: bafy2bzaceapkgfggvxyllnmuogtwasmsv5qi2qzhc2aybockd6kag2g5lzaio
```

**In the upcoming release candidate next week:**

**High Availability WindowPoSt and PC2 SupraSeal:**
- Our team has made significant progress with the High Availability (HA) for WindowPoSt and it’s soon ready for community testing. Keep an eye on the `#fil-lotus-announcements`
- SupraSeal for PC2 is showing impressive performance, with benchmark times around 150 seconds on a A5000!

**Highlights**

- **Storage Miner Actor Updates:** We’ve implemented batch calls to ClaimAllocations during ProveCommitAggregate. This enhancement streamlines the process, reducing the gas cost per sector. ([#1304](https://github.com/filecoin-project/builtin-actors/pull/1304))
- **Verified Registry Actor Optimization:** Now processing allocation claims in batches by sector. This not only optimizes our system but also translates to lower costs for our users. ([#1337](https://github.com/filecoin-project/builtin-actors/pull/1337))
- **Storage Miner/Market Actors Improvement:** We’ve made batch calls to ActivateDeals by sector during ProveCommitAggregate. This improvement is a direct response to the gas increases since FIP0045. ([#1310](https://github.com/filecoin-project/builtin-actors/pull/1310))

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: