---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 24 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-06-16T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-06-16T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**:crossed_fingers: Syncing fix**

It looks like we finally have a confirmation on a fix for nodes that fall out of sync when sending many Snap/deal messages. We have created this `v1.23.1-libp2p-0.27.6` tag which includes the fix and is based on top of the current v1.23.1-rc4.

We would really appreciate if SPs experiencing these syncing issues could run this tag and see how it performs and report back in this [issue](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/10906) - so we can get additional confirmation before shipping it in the final v1.23.1 release.

**:eyes: Sneak peek at some Q3 Milestones**

*:round_pushpin: Filecoin state and Lotus profiling*

One of our goals in Q3 is to better understand the Filecoin state byte size & cron usage breakdown, and build inspection tools that allows us to monitor their growth over time, so that we can detect potential :triangular_flag_on_post: earlier to prevent unexpected downgraded performance in the Filecoin network.

We also want to build profiling tools for Lotus to get a better overview of Lotus’ performance so we can make Lotus better.

*:round_pushpin: Supranational sealing proofs for PC2 / C2*
Supranational has created a highly optimized collection of sealing primitives, and we have it as one of our goals to implement and allow SPs to leverage these new PC2 and C2 proofs to reduce the sealing times for these tasks significantly!

Early benchmarks shows approximately 80% reduction! in sealing times for these GPU-heavy sealing tasks.

We will report back with even more milestones that are on the agenda for Q3 next week!

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: