---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 33 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-08-18T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-08-18T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**Migration optimizations** :muscle:

As highlighted in a previous TWiL-letter, the Lotus team has been working on optimizations for the upcoming network migration. We’ve found some significant improvements, and our updated benchmarks indicate a substantial reduction in time for both the pre-migration and the actual migration (with cache).

**Previous benchmarks:**

- Pre-migration taking **15m33s.**
- Migration (with cache) taking **1m44s.**

**New benchmarks:**

- Pre-migration taking **10m20s**, a reduction of approximately **33%** compared to the previous benchmark!
- Migration (with cache) taking **15.8s**, an impressive reduction of about **84.9%** compared to the previous benchmark.

We are confident that these optimizations will make network migrations smoother and easier for everyone in the network.

**Findings from sector state analysis** :mag:

A recent analysis by the Lotus team revealed that sector info accounts for a significant 58 GiB out of the 75 GiB Filecoin state.
Surprisingly, nearly half of the sector info storage is taken up by CommR. With around 50% of sectors identified as dead. The team believes there’s an opportunity to trim the current state size by roughly 30 GiB.

For a deeper dive into this analysis, head over to the discussion in [#11072](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/795) and explore some of the potential solutions we propose.

**FIL Dev Summit - :flag-sg: Singapore Spotlight: Sep 12-14** :eyes:

The Singapore stop of the FIL Dev Summit is looking pretty epic, with awesome talks and hands-on workshop in the making. The final details of the schedule are still being figured out, but get ready for some great chats and talks on everything Filecoin.

Given the diversity of the audience, we’ll be ensuring the presence of English :left_right_arrow: Mandarin translators in as many rooms as possible. This ensures everyone gets the most out of the summit!

Stay tuned for more updates about the event! Check out the [events website for more information, or if you want to submit a talk](https://fildev.io/#singapore).

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: