---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 36 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-09-08T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-09-08T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**The first release candidate for Lotus v1.23.4 release was published this week.**
- `v1.23.4-rc1`
   - Unsealing bugfixes and enhancements ensuring smooth operation across all sector type
   - Ensure no residual files in sealing paths after a successful unsealing.
   - :warning: `lotus-worker` may fail to connect to the `lotus-miner` unless the `--listen` flag on the worker is explicitly set. We’re aware of this issue and a fix will be backported for the upcoming rc release `v1.23.4-rc2`.
   - Go version 1.21.x is not supported yet.

[Check out the full changelog](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.4-rc1) to see all the features and fixes this version brings.

:new: `PreCommitSectors` to `PreCommitSectorBatch2`

`PreCommitSectorBatch2` was introduced in a couple upgrades ago in the miner actor, and PreCommitSectors will be deprecated in upcoming upgrades.
Thus, [Lotus has landed](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11142) to switch to the new method.

**How It’s Different from Previous Methods:**

Unlike its predecessors (`PreCommitSector` and `PreCommitSectorBatch`), `PreCommitSectorBatch2` consistently specifies **CommD**. This is a shift from the older methods where **CommD** wasn’t always specified. This change is a migration effort, aiming for a more streamlined and consistent precommitment process.

**What this means for you?**

- For SPs who are building your software, we recommend you to switch to this new method sooner rather than later, before its deprecation!
- For block explorers, if you do **not** have this method on your list, please add it.

Dive deeper [here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/11139)

**:bug: :mag:Under Investigation**

Some storage providers have reported mining instability, leading to an increased number of orphan blocks. During these periods, the network wincount also appears to be reduced.

For more technical details, you can view the issue, [here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/11251)

**:flag-sg: FIL Dev Summit - Singapore: Sep 12-14 :flag-sg:**
The FIL Dev Summit in Singapore is almost here. Visit the event [site for details.](https://fildev.io/#singapore)

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: