---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 37 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-09-15T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-09-15T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

Much of the Lotus Team has been in :flag-sg: Singapore this week attending the first ever FILDev Summit!!

The :flag-sg: Summit has been an awesome showcase of amazing speakers :mega:, interactive workshops :wrench:, and ground-breaking demo sessions :clapper:. The Lotus Team has actively engaged in insightful and productive discussions aimed at overcoming existing challenges and strategizing on how Lotus can continue to positively impact the network.

It has been an absolute pleasure for the team to interact with such a wide variety of deeply knowledgeable people and to finally meet many of you for the first time in person!! :handshake:

**:railway_track: Track Takeaways**

- `Sealing, Proving, Chain & Markets` - These are :key: components that could potentially greatly benefit from interchangeability between different SP implementations and custom software.
- `SP Worker Address` - Being responsible for both block signing and message sending (PreCommit / ProveCommit) introduces trust issues. A potential resolution would be to make the worker address only responsible for block signing and use control addresses for messages.
- `SAAS <> SP Challenges` - Numerous challenges are introduced when deal data is added to the equation.
- `Non-Interactive PoRep` - Promising potential enhancement to the sealing pipeline.
- `Resealing` - The ability to reseal lost or corrupted sectors with the unsealed data would be a welcome addition to the stack.
- Retrievals - Understanding different retrieval products, the speeds they offer and their guarantees.
- Also Discussed - IPC and deal data, deal abstraction, support of sparkling data,, timestamping on a faster block time, sector upgrade pipeline, no sector expiration...

... and much more!!

Don't fret if you were unable to join us for the FILDev Summit this time around!! Videos of the tracks will be available soon!! :eyes: Stay tuned to the `#fil-lotus-announcements` for more details in the next few days!!

**And we're only halfway through :half_lotus:the FILDev Summit Series!! - FILDev :flag-is: Iceland :flag-is: - 25th to 27th of September 2023!!**
- The Summit is up next in just a few days and it's not too late to sign up to attend and/or speak.
- Check out the FILDev Summit webpage where you can register and see details of all the upcoming tracks including:
- Protocol Development + Evolution
- Client Data Onboarding Protocol/Tools/Market
- Governance & Community
- Client Onboarding Experience
- Chain Tooling & Infra
- FVM & Runtimes
- Scalability & Computation
- Filecoin Retrievals & Data Availability

That’s it for the week! **Have a fantastic weekend!** :sunny: