---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 25 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-06-23T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-06-23T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

:new: **v1.23.1**

The Lotus v1.23.1 release was shipped this week. It includes improvements and enhancements like **execution lanes**, **aggregation/batching fixes**, and **unsealing enhancements**, as well as numerous other bugfixes and enhancements for both node operators, ETH RPC-providers and storage providers.

Check out the full release notes here.

:white_check_mark: **Synthetic PoRep**

FIP0059 - Synthetic PoRep passed out of last call status this week and has been accepted! The FIP will be implemented during the network version 21 upgrade. The timeline and final scope for the nv21 are yet to be determined, but you [can follow the discussion here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/core-devs/discussions/140)

For storage providers, Synthetic PoRep means that the temporary data stored between PreCommit and ProveCommit can be reduced from ~400GiB to ~25GiB, with no impact on security. You can read the full discussion post about [Synthetic PoRep here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/649)

In Lotus, we have [started working on the implementation](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/10984) and are planning to start testing Synthetic PoReps in the Butterfly testnetwork once everything has been wired up. If you are a storage provider that wants to help us test Synthetic PoReps early on in the Butterfly network, feel free to reach out.

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: