---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 19 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-05-12T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-05-12T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:new: **Lotus v1.23.1-rc2**

The [second release candidate for v1.23.1 was released this week](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.1-rc2). It includes a couple of backports, most notably:

- A fix that addresses the regression where using the `GET_<sectorSize>_MAX_CONCURRENT` environment variable could lead to a stuck scheduler.
- We now hidden the legacy lotus-miner market functions from the CLI. Your `lotus-miner` cmd output should now be a lot cleaner.

:exclamation: Note that this release candidate disables the legacy markets subsystem in the `Lotus-Miner` by default. We recommend all our users to use Boost for markets related operations.

:up: **nv20 reminder**

Gentle reminder that the nv20 upgrade is happening next week `2023-05-18T13:00:00Z`. After which the old windowPoSt proofs (v1) will no longer be accepted by the network.

For **SP-users that has upgraded to Lotus v1.22.1 or Lotus v1.23.x releases there is nothing that you need to do**, as you already have been generating and using the new windowPoSt-proofs (v1_1) since after the nv19 upgrade.

If you want to double check that everything is okay, either:
- Pick a proving deadline with a small amount of sectors and run `lotus-miner proving compute windowed-post [Deadline]`. And check that the “PoStProof”: output is either `13` for 32GiB sectors or `14` for 64GiB sectors.
- Check your windowPoSt messages in any explorer and see that the “PoStProof” type in the parameters is either `13` for 32GiB sectors or `14` for 64GiB sectors.

After the upgrade the `lotus state network-version` command will show: `Network Version: 20`

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: