---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 18 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-05-05T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-05-05T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

It has been **over 1 week since the nv19 network upgrade happened!** Since then we have seen continuous nice low block validation times, faster chain syncing, smaller snapshots and a normal healthy block production rate :tada:

We are aware that some Lotus users have experienced random chain sync issues, where their nodes are stuck on `persisting headers`, and needs to be restarted. We have created two PRs that should help, but does not necessarily close the issue:

- [A PR that reduces the time to persist](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/10800) all headers significantly.
- [A SplitStore enhancement to improve](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/10811) a potential blocking issue.
   - Both of these PRs is currently in the **upcoming Lotus v1.23.1 release**.

Some users that has encountered this issue has been able to mitigate this issue by either:
- Disabling lotus-daemon systemd process and starting the daemon through the CLI.
- Importing a fresh snapshot

We are looking to add more verbose logging so we can get more insight what the underlying can be, but in the meantime we recommend users that encounter this often to check out the PRs, or the mitigations that other user had success with. If you encounter this often, please also add your configs and logs [to this issue.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/10788)

**:new: Lotus v1.23.1-rc1**

The first [release candidate for Lotus v1.23.1](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.1-rc1) was shipped this week. It is a smaller change from `v1.23.0`, but includes some nice enhancements, additional RPC speed improvements and bug fixes in both `lotus` and the `lotus-miner`.

For users upgrading from Lotus v1.22.1 to this release, please read carefully through the [Upgrade Warnings section](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.0) in the v1.23.0 release first.

:exclamation: Please also note that this release candidate disable the legacy markets subsystem in the `Lotus-Miner` by default. We recommend all our users to use [Boost for markets related operations.](https://boost.filecoin.io/)

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: