---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 12 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-03-24T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-03-24T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:ship: **v1.21.0-rc1**

We shipped the first release candidate for Lotus v1.21.0 this week. It´s a rather big feature release with numerous improvements and enhancements for node operators, ETH RPC-providers and storage providers.
Please read carefully through the **:radioactive_sign: Upgrade Warnings :radioactive_sign:** section, as well as the **Highlights** section.

Some of the highlights are:

- SplitStore improvements
- RPC API improvements
- Experimental scheduler assigners for storage providers
- CLI speedups

(Check the full release notes here.)[https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.21.0-rc1]

:rewind: **Syncing issues** :runner:

We are aware of nodes with heavy RPC loads having issues keeping in sync, :alarm_clock: and we have a current sprint on fixing these issue, as well as speeding up RPC calls.

For ETH RPC operators the syncing issues stems from RPC calls taking a lot of time, as well as the increased usage after FEVM landed on the mainnet.

Storage providers has seen issues keeping in sync when a lot of messages are pushed into mpool. We have a clear reproduction of the issue, and currently testing out a fix. We will backport these fixes to the v1.21.0 release :monorail:

**A big thanks to everyone that has been helping identifying the underlying issues and helping testing out fixes.** We truly appreciate it!! We have :drop_of_blood: [edge patch here](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.21.0-rpc-p01) that shows convincing improvements, but we will come back when we have final confirmations that it fixes the issues.

A lot of users have also noticed that catching up sync from a snapshot is taking a lot longer these day. This is largely related to the built-in market actor consuming a lot of computational demand for block validation. A FIP for a short-term mitigation for this is currently in Last Call and will be included network version 19 upgrade if accepted. [You can read the FIP here](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0060.md)

The Infra team is also working on making significant improvements to the snapshots creation.

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: