---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 28 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-07-14T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-07-14T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:wave: **Hey everyone and welcome to This Week in Lotus!**

**v1.23.2-rc2**
The second release candidate for Lotus v1.23.2 release was published this week. It includes a backport fixing the issue where node operators running with the `EnableEthRPC=true` setting had their daemons APIs blocked coming alive.

Check out the [full changelog to see all the features and fixes this version brings.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/releases/tag/v1.23.3-rc2)

**SynthPoRep --> :butterfly:-network**
We have [now a PR in review](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11057) that allows us to start testing SyntheticPoRep, which is accepted and scheduled to be included in the next network upgrade. We are nearing the completion of our preliminary tests on a local developer network. By early next week, we aim to roll out this feature to the Butterfly network.

We will publish more information next week, and we encourage SPs in the community to join the early testing efforts to battle test it.

**Boost v2 :rocket:**
Our friends over at Boost released their first release candidate for Boost v2.0.0 this week, where they replace the dagstore/piecestore with LID (Local Index Director), which will bring SPs:

- Increased visibility into the state of your sectors and indexes.
- Enabling scalability for SPs storing client data.

If you want to participate in the early testing of this release, please [check out this thread.](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C0328PT17JR/p1689067573625049)

**Allowing SPs to move partitions between deadlines? :arrow_right_hook:**

A piece of feedback we frequently receive suggests that it would be highly beneficial for storage providers to be able to shift partitions between deadlines. This would allow them to align all WindowPoSt-proving activities with their preferred business hours.

Our friends over at Venus have presented a Filecoin Improvement Proposal (FIP) that [could introduce such a feature in a network upgrade.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/735) Please review the proposal and provide your feedback if you think this could be beneficial for you

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: