---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 45 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-11-13T00:00:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-11-13T00:00:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

:loudspeaker: **Network Version 21 - Watermelon - Update: FIP0070** :loudspeaker:

The Lotus team continued to put the Calibration Network through its paces last week and unfortunately we have uncovered an additional bug in the FIP0070 implementation which aims to bring movable partition functionality to the Filecoin network.

The bug is related to sector expiration tracking :date:. When a sector is moved between deadlines, its expiration date isn't updating correctly in all cases. This could potentially cause expiration tracking issues, especially if there's a fault and subsequent recovery of a sector/partition.

**Considering the :watermelon: Watermelon Mainnet upgrade is just around the corner**, the governance team has initiated a decision matrix for FIP0070. This will allow our teams to thoroughly investigate and resolve the issue in addition to providing a clear path forward.

The team is now laser-focused on resolving the issue and gearing up for NV21. **Over the next few days, we might need to fine-tune the upgrade timeline, so please ensure you're subscribed to `#fil-network-announcements` and `#fil-lotus-announcements` to stay in the loop!** :loudspeaker::eyes:

Head to this [discussion](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C015KQQLQQ1/p1699496711571029) in the `#fil-actors` channel if you have any questions or would like to dig into the technical details of the issue.

**High Availability of Window and Winning PoSTs is Getting Closer!** :stopwatch:
The team has made great progress over the last week with High Availability (HA) for Window (and now Winning) PoSTs - Codename: **SturdyPost!**

:hammer_and_wrench: Testing is now well underway and we are already seeing successfully submitted PoSTs using the new HA architecture! Check out the images below which show WindowPoST entries successfully recorded in Yugabyte!

**LabWeek23 - A Decentralized Conference by Protocol Labs Network**

Many members of the real-lotus team are now in either Istanbul :flag-tr: or Barcelona :es: for LabWeek23! You can check out the [schedule here](https://23.labweek.io/schedule/calendar) and if you can't make it in person, look out for new videos landing on the Protocol Labs channel during the course of the week. You can [also follow along on Twitter!](https://twitter.com/protocollabs)

The team will still be online to answers any questions that you might have but please bear with us if it takes a little bit longer than usual to reply over the next few days. :pray: :blue_heart:

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny:
