---
title: "This Week in Lotus - Week 20 - 2023"
description: "Stay up to date with what has happened in Lotus this week"
date: 2023-05-19T08:49:55+00:00
lastmod: 2023-05-19T08:49:55+00:00
draft: false
images: []
---

**`lotus state network-version` = `Network Version: 20`:**

The Mainnet network upgraded successfully to network version 20 this week at epoch `2870280`. More details about the upgrade can be found [here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community/discussions/74#discussioncomment-5376097)

**FIP-0045 & Gas Fees**

The Lotus Team received a few questions this week about [FIP-0045's](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0045.md) effect on `PublishStorageDeals` messages and FIL+ message batching. You can read more about the increase in PSD message fees [here](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0045.md#gas-costs) and the numerous initiatives currently underway to significantly improve gas fees [here.](https://github.com/filecoin-project/builtin-actors/issues/1020) :+1:

The Lotus Team is currently recommending that storage providers temporarily disable batching for ProveCommitSector messages for sectors containing verified deals.

If you have any further questions, suggestions or feedback about current gas fees, please reach out to the Actors Team team in the #fil-actors channel on Slack.

Our most excellent friends over in Boost land announced that they will be disabling payments via built-in payment channels actor by default this week. Please make sure to [check out the full post](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C0328PT17JR/p1684438156961149) and update your configs accordingly if required.

The Lotus Team will be hosting their first colo of 2023 in :face_with_cowboy_hat: Austin :us: from the 5th to the 9th of June 2023! We are especially looking forward to welcoming Texan SP's who will be joining us to discuss all things Lotus including current pain points and much-wanted new features! If you are also in the area during the colo week and would like to join the conversation, we would :blue_heart: to welcome you! Please reach out in #fil-lotus-help!! :pray:

That’s it for the week! **Have a great weekend!** :sunny: